## Considering a Luddite Pedagogy
--- 
This week, I read Thomas Pynchon's *Is It O.K. To Be A Luddite?* and Audrey Watters's *'Luddite Sensibilites' and the Future of Education* from the cdl-geneseo library on Zotero. Pynchon's article opens with a dichotomy most college students are familiar with: the polarization of literary and scientific intellectuals, i.e. the Liberal Arts major vs. the STEM major. There is a tendency (or the assumption of a tendency) among non-STEM majors to push back against digital learning in favor of more traditional approaches. Today, given the nation-wide necessity for the marriage of technology and education, we must consider (a) if the push-back against fully digital education is in some way justifiable and (b) how to remedy ed-tech/digital learning to best fit the needs of all students and educators, both current and potential. This is a conversation about present actualities and future possibilities. For better or for worse, tech proficiency has become part of the educational landscape, and we need to figure out how to address this. 

First, as Pynchon says: Do we dare deny the machine? The Luddites, who destroyed textile machinery in the seventeenth century, certainly tried to. Like some people we may know today, Luddites were known for their irrational fear/hatred of technology. But was it the machinery itself that produced this response, or the system of inequities that the machine represented? Pynchon argues for the latter, as does Watters in her article. It's not that anyone today resents the computer as the computer, it's the computer as a conduit for control, exploitation, and violence that we so rightfully fear. How can we use machines-- or refuse the use of machines-- to make the new educational landscape easier to access, navigate, and succeed in? Watters indicates a sort of meaningful transgression when it comes to digital learning: we reserve the right to refuse digital learning models that are violating, racist, or limiting. Like Luddites, we acknowledge the flawed framework and dismantle it. But how do we reassemble digital learning with everyone's best interests in mind? It's a problem best approached with objectivity and subjectivity in mind: we rely on data for empirical evidence, but also individual perspectives for universal compatability. 

Moving forward, I'd like to make a pros/cons list for a prospective Luddite pedagogy, and consider what, specifically, such a pedagogy would entail. 