# September 29 Journal Update
--- 
I have two different focus areas in my journal this week. First, I want to continue our conversation from last week about learning management systems and possible alternatives. Following that, I will add on to our discussion of digital study abroad experiences. 

### Canvas vs. OpenLab
As I was tooling around on Wordpress today, setting up my Profile and Portfolio pages, I relished in the creative freedom of OpenLab. Of course, this freedom can be a little frightening at first: there were some formatting kinks I couldn't iron out, even with the help of Google (although I'm sure my CDL colleagues will point me in the right direction at our meeting tomorrow). I couldn't help but compare OpenLab to Canvas as an instruction tool-- on Canvas, everything has a preset and standardized shell, which certainly has its merits, but results in all courses presenting the same basic and impersonal format. With OpenLab, there is more room for personalization, as well as simple incorporation of external sites and pages. But why should "personalization" matter in a digital classroom? Well, for one thing, it reminds students that their professor/instructor is an actual person, carefully curating content pages with students in mind, rather than an impersonal proctor sending out grade notifications and the occasional group message on Canvas. Ideally, digital learning would foster the same positive relationship between students and instructor as in-class instruction does, open communication between individuals being a huge factor in this. Because Canvas is so institutionalized and impersonal, it's increasingly difficult to form that connection, and oftentimes easier to eschew the connection altogether in favor of a more business-like approach: the student submits assignments by their set deadline, the instructor submits a grade, the process repeats until the semester ends. Maybe there's nothing inherently wrong with this set-up, but there are elements of personal connection sorely lacking here. Zoom calls don't offer the same space for personal connection that the classroom did, so taking the extra steps to personalize learning on an open platform might make all the difference in terms of student engagement with the material. Additionally, if we are to evaluate instructors primarily on their course design and content rather than classroom performance, shouldn't we allow them more elbow-room for design? Do we really want all course content to come pre-packaged by Canvas infrastructure? 

And that's the next problem: what about Canvas? More specifically, what *don't* we know about Canvas, and should we be concerned? I went in search of any articles criticizing Canvas, and didn't find much. That's not suprising-- all of us are reliant on Canvas right now, so any "bad news" that gets out could upend the whole system. What I did find was a push for interoperability and automation in Learning Management Systems like Canvas. Interoperability is "the tendency for LMSs in order to be able to aggregate, integrate, and analyze student learning data" (Brown, Dehoney, & Millichap, 2015). Automation refers to this data analysis being done automatically as part of the system. I am concerned about the exploitative potential in automated interoperability. Another projected future of learning management systems is personalized learning, which I want to distinguish from what I was talking about earlier. Earlier, I suggested that the instructor personalizes their content/content page to encourage interpersonal connections between student and instructor. Personalized learning as noted here suggests creating a learning model around individual differences. This could be beneficial in terms of learning disabilities, but also raises concerns for surveillance and censorship. How much data will corporations have to gather about you to truly personalize your learning experience? Where will that data go? Identity politics comes into play as well: suppose a student identifies as a white Christian and claims that reading "The Song of Achilles" by Madeline Miller goes against his Christian identity in its positive portrayal of homosexuality. If we afford everyone the right to say "yes" or "no" in personalizing learning content, we are in turn censoring certain viewpoints. If we can't be challenged or changed by the things we learn, and only learn the things that conform to our worldview, what's the point of education at all? 

I did order two articles off IDS that critiqued Learning Management Systems, so once those arrive, I'll make another journal post reporting my findings. *Edit*: see my new journal post!

### An Aside: Digital Study Abroad Experiences
This is more of a brief comment. Last week, we mentioned the idea of international pen-pals as a "digital" study abroad experience. I think at one point I said, "Taking a step backwards and writing letters might be a good thing." Of course, it's not a step backwards at all. I need to stop thinking in terms of "backward" and "forward" technology, but it's hard when there's this endless pursuit and praise of new technology. This weekend I read a gorgeous essay in *Harper's*, "Disappearing Ink" by Claire Messud (it's not long, I recommend reading it if you have the chance), and I thought what she wrote about writing letters encouraged the re-birth of letter writing, and suggested some great possibilities for having an international pen-pal: 

"I advocate for the actual, irreducible, and irreplacable animal record-- outside the age of mechanical reproduction. The movement of the hand that holds the pen; the imprint of ink upon paper; the dignity and intimacy of the individual letter, written for a particular addressee (and hence so different from a blog or social-media post), without thought of other readers. The loss of what that represents philosophically is enormous: my grandparents, my parents, even my friends and I in youth, spent hours writing letters about what we were doing and thinking, where we were going and what we noticed, as a gesture of intimate communication. It signified that each of us mattered, that the person to whom I wrote mattered, and that our communication was important-- often precisely because it wasn't widely shared. Privacy, intimacy, dignity, and with them, depth and richness of thought-- all were a readily available part of daily life, for even the most modest among us." 
