# First CDL Meeting

Last Wednesday, we held our first meeting for the Center for Digital Learning. After a quick refresher on our tech skills, we discussed our expectations for the CDL in its first semester. While the possibilites remain broad, our primary goal is to *facilitate a metaconversation about digital learning*. When and how has digital learning been implemented successfully in the classroom so far, and how can we extend this experience to more students and educators? What are the shortcomings of digital learning, and how can we improve/overcome them? We haven't answered these questions very specifically yet because we are not relying on the experiences of CDL members alone. *Student-centered pedagogy* is one of the CDL's guiding values, which means we'll need input from as many students as possible to decide the best way to move forward. Which leads us to the big question...

**How do we gain visibility for the CDL?** 
Hearing from a wide range of individuals is crucial to our understanding of just how digital learning is going for everyone. What might entice students to share their perspectives/experiences over a Zoom call? A good suggestion was live performances: students could perform music/stand-up comedy/poetry recitations etc. both to generate interest on campus and to make the atmosphere of a Zoom call more inviting. Maybe atmosphere is the key term here... how can we cultivate an atmosphere in which students (and faculty) feel comfortable enough to share their honest experiences with digital learning? 

We don't really have a solid answer yet. I suggested some degree of anonymity might help students, especially, open up about their concerns: nobody wants to be pitied or feel inept while telling everyone in the Zoom call how they failed a class last semester because they couldn't understand their professor's video lectures or didn't know how to ask for help. It would a little less on-the-spot, I think, to have a space for people to submit anonymous feedback to digital learning, which we could read through and address during our Zoom meetings. There would have to be clear guidelines for anonymous submissions, especially about not using other people's names and baseless complaints (unfortunately, I think there would be a good few that have more to do with personal issues than digital learning, but even those might have something worthwhile to discuss).  

Besides marketing for the CDL, some broad, overarching questions we left the meeting on Wednesday with were:  
- Should we have more online courses?
- Should online/hybrid/face-to-face courses all be weighed the same? 
- How can we better evaluate online instruction? 
- What will the "new normal" at SUNY Geneseo look like? 