# The Future of Study Abroad and OpenLab

This past week, we discussed quite a few topics, two of them being the study abroad program at SUNY Geneseo and the new SUNYCreate program/OpenLab.

In the midst of a global pandemic, caused by caused by unforeseen circumstances, it is without a doubt difficult to plan for the future. Currently, studying abroad has been put on pause. The return of the program is still unsure, but it is safe to say that it will most likely be another year or so before it resumes, as the health and safety of faculty and students is the number one priority. However, studying abroad is a huge opportunity for Geneseo students to obtain a more global and diverse education. Students being able to interact with locals in different countries With the loss of this face-to-face interaction for the time being, we started to brainstorm some ideas of how we could possibly resolve this issue. Mariah brought up being penpals with international students, which I think is a great idea! Not only would it be a fairly substantial way of socializing, but it would also be educational in terms of learning a new language, or just learning about the everyday lives of people around the world. Not to mention, this would be a good way to support the USPS, as it has faced many challenges in the past few months. The possibility of having Zoom calls with international students was also brought up, another idea that I believe would be of interest to Geneseo students. It actually reminded me of a program I participated in my senior year of high school, where I would have scheduled video conversations with an international student (completely in their language). Unfortunately, I cannot remember the name of the site/program for the life of me, but I wish I could as I really enjoyed it. Every student would write a small bio about themselves so that you could match with someone that had similar interests as you, which made the conversations more personal and interesting. I wonder if there are any equivalent applications today that the SUNY Geneseo study abroad program could either join in on or replicate. 

We also started taking a look at the SUNY Create project and OpenLab, as Amanda is the Geneseo representative - which is so cool! The site is similar to Canvas, but not quite as fancy. Essentially, it is going to be a place where students can connect with other students, along with faculty and staff members to share what they have been working on. It is going to be particularly helpful to those who will be partaking in the new Individualized Studies major, since it pulls bits and pieces of several majors to create a custom major full of real world experiences and project components. Everyone gets their own personal portfolio, with a whole domain dedicated to it. For example, my portfolio can be found at [abigail-henry.geneseo.sunycreate.cloud](https://abigail-henry.geneseo.sunycreate.cloud). Students are able to control the privacy of the content they post here, and are able to take the site with them upon graduation. The profile setup was surprisingly easy and took me less than five minutes! The only issue I ran into was not having the option “Class of 2023” for the Graduation Year section, but that was fixed immediately. However, I am struggling with the customization of my profile, as the interface is somewhat confusing for me. I was able to change the theme/colors of my portfolio, no problem, but I am not sure how to change things such as the categories that appear at the top of my homepage (About Me, Sample Page, Academics, etc.). I feel as though the answer is obvious, and I am hoping to figure it out this next week.
