# Luddites and Learning

This week, as a warm-up to our weekly Zoom meeting this past Wednesday, we were asked to read two articles found in the Center for Digital Learning's Zotero library. I had never heard of Zotero prior to this exercise, but after a brief trial and error period of setting it up, I have to admit that it is a cool site. I love that you can save pretty much anything on there - from newspaper articles, to blog posts, to even YouTube videos! I hope to get more use out of Zotero in the future. 

Both of the articles, titled "Is it O.K. to be a Luddite?" and "'Luddite Sensibilities' and the Future of Education" (respectively) discussed Luddites. This term was used to refer to people during the Industrial Revolution who opposed the newfound machinery, and the practices of capitalism that came along with it. The term has actually carried over to present day, and is still used to describe those who are not in favor of the corporations behind educational technology. 

I really enjoyed the latter piece written by Audrey Watters, as she talked about how it is not necessarily a "bad" thing to identify yourself as a Luddite, nor to desire a more Luddite pedagogy. With a rapid push towards online learning nowadays, I think that most of us do not take the time to consider the consequences turning everything digital. Her example of ed-tech being in hands of organizations such as ICE and the police is something I have never thought about before. Not to mention, how terrifying it then becomes when the rights of students/workers are at stake. 

For the other part of our activity, we were asked to find an article that speaks to how we see the "Big Picture" of the CDL. After scrolling through Twitter for a while, I stumbled upon digital humanist Jesse Stommel's blog. His post, "Designing for Care: Inclusive Pedagogies for Online Learning", immediately caught my attention. I believe that it truly speaks to how I personally envision the CDL moving forward - accessible for all. A big struggle instructors face when transitioning to online learning is trying to replicate face-to-face courses in a digital space. Despite the same goal needing to be met, as Stommel argues, we need to look at different ways of achieving it. There is no one-size-fits-all method of instruction, especially when we need to make sure that students' needs are being met and accomodated.

Overall, I would definitely be interested in discussing a more Luddite approach to current education. These articles opened my eyes to some of the bigger issues at hand in the realm of online learning, and what some possible solutions to these issues may be. 