# A Follow-up to Luddites and Learning

At the very end of one of my previous journal entries, I wrote,

> There is no one-size-fits-all method of instruction, especially when we need to make sure that students' needs are being met and accommodated.
>
> Overall, I would definitely be interested in discussing a more Luddite approach to current education. These articles opened my eyes to some of the bigger issues at hand in the realm of online learning, and what some possible solutions to these issues may be.

When I wrote this, I was unsure of what solutions to these ed-tech issues were even possible - and to be quite honest, I am still not entirely sure. However, I have been doing a bit of research.

While I was digging through the CDL's Online Teaching folder in Zotero, I came across a blog post titled ["Exam Design: Promoting Integrity Through Trust and Flexibility"](http://insights.nursekillam.com/reflect/exam-design/) written by Nurse Laura Killam. It is a great write-up, in which she reviews and discusses her newfound approach to online exams. She says that while her exams do have due-dates, they are open for a week and completely open book. The exams are also designed to have questions of different levels of difficulty, the hardest ones being the same as they would be if the tests were being taken in person. One point that she argues, that I think is notable, is the use of minimal technology when proctoring online exams. 

Taking into consideration the problem of the lack of accessibility in some digital courses, I believe that this could be an answer. This actually reminded me of a [tweet](https://twitter.com/LegendAriee16/status/1304098649186742273?s=20) I brought up in one of our first Zoom meetings. The author of the tweet, a fellow college student, shared an email from one of their professors regarding an exam they had taken. In brief, the professor expressed frustration that Proctorio (an online proctoring service) had tracked too many head and eye movements during the test, and that there would be consequences if it were to happen again. Instances such as this emphasize the ableist undertones of digital learning, which is exactly what it should *not* do. Thus, using a proctoring service that uses a webcam to view students may not be the best idea. Perhaps a better idea would be to use applications like Lockdown Browser, which does not record individuals during an exam, but still blocks access to outside websites. Or, in true Luddite fashion - simply just allowing students to use given resources, as pretty much no digital tool can fully prevent cheating.